Kings chapter number 11.
Second Kings chapter number 11 this morning
and thankful for the Bible, amen.
And what a blessing to have a Bible
that we can say, turn to your Bible.
If you don't have one with you,
there are Bibles in the chairs in front of you.
You have to access the Bibles and the hymnals
from the chair in front of you, all right?
You can't get it from under your chair
the way that the book racks work.
And so you'll have to get it from the chair in front of you.
And we have hymnals and we have Bibles scattered
in each of those rows.
And so that's available for you.
On May 9th, 1914, President Woodrow Wilson
issued a presidential proclamation
that officially established the first Mother's Day holiday
to celebrate America's mothers.
It's my understanding that well over 150 countries
around the globe celebrate Mother's Day.
It's not always on this particular day.
They have various times in their particular countries
on their calendars in which they celebrate Mother's Day.
But we find that the idea for Mother's Day
here in America is credited by some to Julia Howe
and by others to Anna Jarvis.
Anna Jarvis is kind of the one that's most notably known
for starting Mother's Day or the idea of it.
And they both suggested that there would be a holiday
dedicated to a day of peace.
Many individuals then started celebrating
Mother's Day in 1911, but it wasn't until 1914
when Woodrow Wilson lobbied Congress
that Mother's Day was officially set
on the second Sunday of every May.
And in his first proclamation,
here's what President Woodrow Wilson said.
He said that the holiday offered a chance to,
quote unquote, publicly express our love and reverence
for the mothers of our country.
And I hope that if you have a mom
that is still living here on earth,
that you had the opportunity already today
to wish her a happy Mother's Day.
And my mom, I was able to send her a text
early this morning, send my mother-in-law a text as well.
And then of course, was able to thank Holly
for being a wonderful mother to our children.
And then Juliana, she has some children,
so I sent her a text as well.
And we actually found out last week,
baby number three is on the way.
And so that is an extra blessing.
And so we thank the Lord for that.
But Mother's Day is certainly a special day on our calendar
and we appreciate the opportunity as a church family
to be able to extend our appreciation.
Again, we had the Mother's Day breakfast.
I think we had about 55 or so people here
for the breakfast this morning.
And a wonderful turnout, wonderful time of fellowship.
And then of course, the gifts in the back there.
And then this evening you get to pick your favorite song
and we'll have a good time with that.
If you have your Bible, 2 Kings 11,
I asked you to turn there already.
We'll be looking at just as three verses this morning,
verses one through three.
And as we look at the Bible character
that is mentioned here in 2 Kings 11,
it's probably a Bible character
that many are not super familiar with actually.
And Jehoshabbah is the name of the Bible character
that we'll be looking at this morning.
If you did look in the bulletin already,
I've titled the message this morning,
The Courage of Jehoshabbah.
The Bible says this in verse number one of 2 Kings 11.
And when Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah,
saw that her son was dead,
she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.
But Jehoshabbah, the daughter of King Joram,
sister of Ahaziah, took Joash, the son of Ahaziah,
and stole him from among the king's sons, which were slain.
And they hid him, even him and his nurse,
in the bedchamber from Athaliah,
so that he was not slain.
And he was with her hid in the house of the Lord six years.
And Athaliah did reign over the land.
As we look at this portion of scripture,
we're reminded that the events surrounding
the reference to Jehoshabbah are sad.
We begin to look here,
we see that she is the sister of Ahaziah, who is the king.
If we were to very quickly summarize
the tenure of Ahaziah as king over Judah,
it was extremely brief,
and it was marked with great wickedness.
And we find in the midst of the wickedness of Ahaziah,
and after his death with Athaliah,
his mother and all that took place,
we find that in this tragic period of time,
Jehoshabbah shines as a courageous woman of God.
I believe that as you look here
and we examine the passage of scripture today,
I trust that as we have the opportunity
to look at some of the characteristics,
the attributes of this woman of God, Jehoshabbah,
that we would be encouraged and that we'd be challenged
to live our lives courageously.
And we need people of courage.
We need people to stand up and do what's right
in the midst of a time in which it seems
as if it's more and more popular
to not do that which is right.
We talked about, we've mentioned before,
it's understood throughout the scriptures
that not only are there nations that do
and engage in wickedness,
but we find that really a sad point in a nation's history
is when they begin to legislate wickedness.
And we see those things,
we've seen them for a period of time.
But in the midst of such adverse sets of circumstances,
the reality is that there's always a remnant.
Always a remnant.
You begin to look throughout the scriptures,
you begin to think about great heroes of faith
and you can read of them and we're familiar with them
and we can see how God always has a remnant.
And I'm thankful that we can stand courageously
in these last days and we can stand
and make a difference in our community and in our world.
We can make a difference for eternity.
In fact, as mothers, you have the opportunity,
those that are mothers here this morning,
you have the opportunity to influence greatly
a future generation.
Your responsibility, your task,
your privilege of investing
and instructing a future generation
is so vital and so precious.
In fact, there are times in which we live in a society
in which sometimes they look down upon those
that would desire to have a greater influence
in the lives of their children
because there's such a demand and such a need
to be engaged in other activities and what have you.
But what a joy to be able to invest in a future generation.
If we're gonna look at the text of scripture,
just three thoughts about Jehoshaphat today
that I hope would be an encouragement
to each of us that are here.
The message is geared toward Mother's Day,
but we understand for all in attendance,
the word of God is being preached
and we have an opportunity to be able to be challenged
and respond to what God reveals to us in his precious word.
If you look at the text, number one,
if you're taking notes, Jehoshaphat took initiative.
I want you to notice that she took initiative
and we begin to understand the situation
as we read the text of scripture
and we find that the Bible tells us there in verse number one
that when Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah,
saw that her son was dead.
So what happens, let's set the scene,
Ahaziah is the king of Judah and he dies
and Athaliah, now the mother of the king,
she's a wicked woman and she now has this desire
that there's going to be a vacancy,
a vacuum if you will, of leadership
and so she can step in and she can have
that power, that control.
Now remember, she's a wicked woman
and she has that desire and here's what she did
to try to ensure that she could be the queen.
It says at the end of verse number one
that she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.
Now to break that down, she killed her grandkids.
You say, what in the world?
Yeah, what in the world?
It's wicked, it's ungodly, it's hard for us
to be able to comprehend but that's the setting
in which we read about Jehoshabba.
We see this wickedness that is taking place.
Again, Ahaziah was a wicked man and his time,
his tenure of king over Judah is marked by wickedness.
It was a brief reign but it was a wicked time
and we find that this one, Jehoshabba,
she took initiative.
We see that she understood the situation
and she acted with compassion.
She acted with courage and how we need to understand
as we look at the text of scripture,
the Bible just simply says in verse number two,
but Jehoshabba and then begins to explain to us
what she did.
As best I can tell from reading the portion of scripture
here in the book of 2 Kings,
reading the other passage in 2 Chronicles
and doing some comparisons, as best I can tell,
there was no one that came to Jehoshabba
and told her to do this.
There was no one that even encouraged her to do this.
She simply acted.
She simply took initiative.
You think about that idea of taking initiative.
Sometimes we are prone to be in that category,
that situation in life.
We say, well, somebody will take care of that.
Somebody will do that and there's a poem.
I don't have it before me this morning
but there's a poem about somebody and anybody and anyone
and all these kinds of things
and the reality is that when we think somebody will do it,
often what happens is nobody does it.
Sometimes in life we just need to understand
what it is to take initiative,
that we see that there's a need
and we see that the Holy Spirit of God
would work in our hearts and our lives
and we take initiative and we find that she took initiative
and because of that, she made a difference.
She made a difference.
I often think about this as I read the Bible
and even as I preach the Bible,
I often think about the fact
that you can read the portions of Scripture
and as you read the portions of Scripture
and you're reading.
read the events that God records for us,
that if certain characters did not take the action
that they took, how different the passage would read.
You think about those that believed God,
they acted in faith, and we've been speaking on Wednesdays
about living by faith, and you think about Noah,
we dealt with just a few weeks ago.
Man, if he had not believed God and built an ark,
I mean, what would we, you begin to just think that way.
And here, we find that Athaliah, she was on a mission
to be able to ensure that she would have a place of power,
a place of leadership, but Jehoshabba, she took initiative.
She saw the situation.
She saw that someone needed to do something.
And I'm thankful for the example of Jehoshabba,
as you read here in 2 Kings chapter 11,
that she did something.
Not only do I notice that she took initiative,
but I'd say this, number two, Jehoshabba was intentional.
Intentional, you know, it's one thing to take initiative
but not know what you're doing.
You understand what I'm saying?
She took initiative, but she was intentional
with what she did.
We need to have people today that would not only take
initiative, but that we would live with, as we see here,
that we would have that intentional living,
that we do things with a purpose.
And we look here in the text of Scripture,
notice in verse number two specifically,
the Bible says this, but Jehoshabba,
the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziah,
it says that she took Joash, the son of Ahaziah.
It says, it records it this way, and stole him
from among the king's sons, which were slain.
So she was intentional in what she did.
She recognized the threat.
She understood that the threat was real.
She understood that the situation required
not only urgency, but she understood
that the situation required wisdom.
You know, this morning, we live in an era,
we live in a time where we need to live with urgency.
I used that word a couple of Sunday evenings ago
as we were going through the book of Revelation
and I kinda, probably 10 or 12 different times
in that single message last Sunday evening,
I just kept using the word urgency
because the reality is that we need to learn
to live with urgency, the time is short.
And we find that the situation here in the kingdom
at the time of Jehoshabba, it was a dire situation.
It was a real threat.
If she did not act with initiative,
she did not take initiative, if she was not intentional,
you find that Joash surely could be put to death.
It was a real situation, a real threat.
It required urgency.
But not only urgency, it required wisdom.
You ever see somebody, sometimes we use this phrase,
haste makes waste, and you tell people,
and sometimes we do need to act with urgency,
we just talked about that, but we need to have wisdom.
Ever seen somebody that's just trying to act with urgency
and they're not doing anything that makes sense?
And so we see these two things paired together,
that we have urgency, but we have wisdom,
and we notice here in the text of scripture
that she took, the Bible says that she took Joash,
the son of Ahaziah, and stole him
from among the king's sons which were slain.
And then it says, and they hid him.
You know, it's challenging to hide people.
You need wisdom.
What are you gonna do?
Athaliah was on a path.
She was on a mission.
And so Jehoshabba, she was intentional.
We find that not only did she take and steal Joash
to be able to provide safety and protection,
but the Bible says that even him,
and notice what it says, his nurse.
As best we can tell, as you look through the text
of scripture and understand that Joash was seven
when he began to reign, that you'd understand there
that she hid him for six years,
that means he was one year old.
What do one year olds do?
Come on, help me this morning.
Cry, amen, amen, right?
And we ever have a one year old around,
you know they cry, and sometimes they cry
just because they cry, right?
Sometimes you think, listen, what's wrong with that baby?
There's something wrong, they're crying.
And the mom might say, no, they've been fed,
they've been changed, they just,
and you say, well, they need to stop crying.
You ever feel that way?
I feel that way.
The kid needs to stop crying, amen?
And there's just something, we need to solve a problem.
And sometimes kids just need to cry.
And here's, I've heard parents say this,
they'll wear themselves out.
Well, they wear themselves out before they wear me out.
That's what I wanna know, you understand what I'm saying?
And the reality is that, again,
as we understand the situation, a one year old,
this task is significant.
She took initiative, but she had to have a plan.
She had to have, as we say here, that she was intentional.
There had to be a plan, what am I gonna do?
Okay, I see the need and I wanna rescue this one Joash,
but what am I gonna do?
How am I gonna do this?
It requires urgency.
She had to move.
There was no time to delay.
There was no time to form a committee
and try to figure out.
No, something had to be done, but she needed wisdom.
Isn't it good to know the God who has all wisdom?
You live life, I live life, we face things in life,
and there are times as we go through life
that we recognize in a greater way than other times.
The reality is that we need God's wisdom
every day of our lives, but there are certain times,
certain moments in your life where you recognize
you need God's wisdom in a greater way.
Parenting requires wisdom.
If you haven't found that out yet,
I hope you get the memo today.
It requires wisdom, God's wisdom.
And we find here that she needed wisdom,
so she takes Joash, but the Bible tells us
that she also took his nurse,
and this was an important aspect with regard
to the fact that Jehoshaphat was intentional.
She had a purposed plan.
She had the wisdom of God, and it says there
at the end of verse number two,
in the bedchamber from Athaliah,
so that he was not slain.
There was a specific purpose, a specific goal
that she was seeking to reach and accomplish,
and that was to protect Joash from his grandmother,
to protect Joash from Athaliah, to spare his life.
And we find that as you look here,
and you find that in verse number three
that the Bible says, and he was with her,
hid in the house of the Lord six years.
Now I know for some of us, six years doesn't seem
like a long time, but then on the other side,
we begin to kind of sit back and think about it,
six years is a long time.
To have this single task of hiding Joash
as he would grow, as he would grow and develop
and desire to be able to play and do whatever,
various things, and all the while,
the end of verse number three says
that Athaliah did reign over the land.
It seems as if, as you would look at the text of scripture,
and you would understand the initiative
that Joashaba took, but then you see
that she was intentional, and she had to be intentional
for this entire duration of time.
She'd be very careful with every decision that she made.
Can I tell you this morning, for those
that still have children at home,
you need to be intentional.
Every day matters.
Every decision, oftentimes people will ask me
questions about parenting, and one word
that I consistently give them is consistency.
You have to be consistent.
If you're not consistent, the kids figure it out
in a moment, they really do.
Consistency is key.
Every day is an opportunity to instruct
and to train and to point them to Jesus,
but we find that this morning, not only
when we talk to mothers, and it's Mother's Day,
and so we understand the emphasis,
but we recognize this morning that as the people of God,
do I live, do you live intentional?
Do we go through our day, are there
certain things that you do?
See, because Joashaba was intentional.
Why do you do the things that you do?
Is there a reason?
If somebody were to say to you, why did you do that?
What would you say?
Would you be able to have an answer
for why you did the thing that you did?
When you begin to look at someone that's a professional,
whether they're a mechanic, woodworking,
maybe they're a professional in the kitchen
and they are very good with desserts
or with meals and whatever it might be,
and you watch them do their thing,
and you can say, why did you do that?
You're trying to learn from them,
but they did it on purpose.
There was a reason, and they can explain to you,
we did it this way because if you didn't do it
in this order, then you end up,
you understand what I'm saying?
And so when we look at the text of scripture
and we think about living our lives
and understanding the time in which Joashaba is living
and understand the circumstances in which she's facing
and the dire circumstances, I mean,
it's a matter of life and death.
But can I tell you today,
it's still a matter of life and death.
And we need God's wisdom.
We need to act with.
urgency, we need to be intentional
as Jehoshaphat was intentional.
We need to take those moments that God would give us.
I'm on the, Holly and I are on the other side
of the equation at this point where our children,
yes, we still have two that are at home,
but our children are adults.
And the opportunities, we say so often,
it just passes so quickly.
In fact, we were sitting at the dinner table yesterday
and Brianna shared with us a note that she found
that was written, you were nine, you said,
when she got the note from Holly and she still had it
and she was just mentioning about the note
and I said this, and now you're 21.
Any of you else feel that way?
How quickly time passes, right?
We know your life is but a vapor, right?
Man, it just goes so quick.
And here we are, looking at this portion of scripture
and thinking about six years and thinking about
those moments day by day of needing to have God's wisdom.
What a lesson for us to learn.
What a lesson from Jehoshaphat.
I noticed that not only did she take initiative,
not only was she intentional, but I want you to notice
number three this morning that Jehoshaphat was influential.
She was influential.
Jehoshaphat, her husband is Jehoiada.
Jehoiada is the priest.
And I want you to understand that Jehoshaphat and Jehoiada
for those six years, because of the initiative
that she took, because she was intentional,
they had the opportunity to have influence
in the life of Joash.
They took the initiative.
They didn't sit back and say, well,
somebody else could do it.
Well, even if someone else did stand up and do it,
then that someone else would be the one
that would have the influence, right?
So we find that the husband Jehoiada being the priest
and Jehoshaphat, they had this opportunity.
And I believe that for six years,
they had the opportunity to instruct Joash
in those forming years.
Six years old.
Or six years, he was one.
He becomes the king.
It says seven years old in chapter number 11
and verse 21 was Joash when he began to reign.
So I want you to consider this with me this morning.
We consider the fact that Jehoshaphat was influential.
The difference in upbringing is significant.
Obviously, if Athaliah had had her way,
he would have been killed.
But if you think about the circumstances,
you begin to think about the upbringing,
the influence that took place in Joash's life,
you would find that there's a significant difference
that he was raised by Jehoshaphat and Jehoiada.
There was influence.
The Bible tells us in chapter number 12,
in the seventh year of Jehu,
Joash began to reign and 40 years reigned he in Jerusalem
and his mother's name was Zebiah of Beersheba.
And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the Lord
all his days when Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
Now, we understand I've preached messages before
about Joash with the regard to the fact
that he did that which was right
while Jehoiada lived and there's influence there
and there's instruction when Jehoiada died,
there were other people that influenced him
and guess what, he did wicked things.
But I wanna focus on Jehoshaphat this morning
because she acted with compassion,
she acted with courage and we find that she
had an opportunity in those early years
of this young man's life to be able
to influence and instruct.
I understand that the Bible says in verse number two
that Jehoiada the priest instructed him
and there were certain obvious opportunities
that Jehoiada had in the life of Joash
that Jehoshaphat didn't have.
However, when you think about Jehoshaphat this morning
and you think about the timing and all that was going on
in those early years in the instruction,
here's what I understand through research.
Research indicates that an individual's worldview,
their worldview is shaped between 18 months and 13 years.
I understand that he's only seven when it begins to rain
and so only about half of that time
was spent with Jehoshaphat and Jehoiada.
But I want you to understand that a person's worldview
is shaped between 18 months and 13 years.
Now, sometimes we look at our society today
and we say, well, how do our kids, how do they have,
how does this generation have this perspective
on these things that they have?
Well, who's shaping their worldview?
Who's shaping their worldview?
You understand what I'm saying?
We could answer the question this morning,
we could understand that God has given to us as parents,
our children, and has given to us the responsibility
to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.
That's a biblical responsibility for parents,
to teach them, to train them.
In the modern era in America,
we have delegated that responsibility
to a host of different people and institutions.
Is it not true?
Can I tell you that oftentimes our public school system
is more about indoctrination than it is about academics?
I know that's not a super popular statement to make,
but it's true.
It's true.
They're more about indoctrination
than they are about academics.
And so you think about it, we take and we get a child
when they're, and sometimes it even starts
before we get to the point of school, kindergarten,
you're talking about daycares and that sort of thing,
and you think about the worldview is being formed.
It's being shaped.
And all of a sudden when they're 13 years old,
the parents are like, I don't know what to do
with these kids, these teenagers,
they're so terrible.
Have you ever heard somebody say that?
You say, I said it.
Listen, the teen years can be some
of the most precious years.
Why?
Because you've taught your children how to walk with God.
You've instructed your children how to have
a relationship with God.
And as they're growing in their walk with God
and they're growing, listen, it's exciting
to be able to have those conversations
with teenage children as they're growing in the Lord.
You think about the number of hours that children spend
in a classroom, the indoctrination,
the influence that's taking place.
Could we use this as well this morning?
How many have taken and they've adopted the idea
that they could allow some television shows,
some cartoons to occupy their children?
Man, there's some wicked stuff that's going on
through that.
I mean, listen, they're being indoctrinated.
They're seeing things, they're hearing things,
they're becoming calloused and numb to certain things.
Why?
Because that's what they're seeing,
that's what they're hearing.
And we think about this idea of influence.
A worldview, an individual's worldview is shaped
between 18 months and 13 years.
The research indicates that.
That's when it's shaped.
So think about these six years that Jehoshaphat,
because she was intentional,
because she took the initiative,
she now has this opportunity to influence this young man,
Joash.
He's gonna be seven when he becomes the king.
The upbringing is much different than it would have been
had he been raised, if his father Ahaziah had not died
and he had been raised in that home under his leadership,
then his life would be so much different.
The influence.
I understand that Jehoshaphat's not the mom,
she's really the aunt, but she really fills the role
as being a mother, nurturing, instructing, influencing.
Sometimes, if we're not careful,
we can think that the church has the responsibility
to bring up our children, to raise our children.
Can I say this?
The church has a responsibility to come alongside
the home and help the home.
But it's not the church's responsibility
to raise your children.
It's just not.
It is your responsibility.
And the church can come alongside, listen,
we desire to have Sunday school teachers
and to have youth workers that are going to give
biblically accurate and biblically strong lessons
to our young people to reinforce
what they're hearing at home.
But the number of hours that a young person is in church
versus the number of hours that a young person is in school
versus the number of hours a young person is on a device
of some sort, whether it's a TV or a tablet
or whatever it might be, and the number of hours
that a child is with their own parents,
the difference is drastic.
Even if a young person came to church
for every service of the week, Sunday school,
Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night,
at max, you have four hours of instruction.
That's half a day in school, right?
About equal to the number of hours
that most young people spend on some type of device daily.
What am I saying?
She had influence because she made a decision.
She was intentional, she took initiative.
And for us this morning, we think about this influence.
They say not only is an individual's worldview
shaped between 18 months and 13.
but research also indicates that an individual's
moral compass is mostly developed
by the time they're nine years old.
Think about that.
And I know sometimes we say, man, they're just kids.
No, no.
Their moral compass is primarily mostly developed
by the time they're nine years old.
That's why sometimes you can ask some of these kids
about certain moral issues and they have more sense
than some of these old people do.
You listen to some of these people on TV
and you're like, what are they talking about?
In the news, they write articles,
they got these accolades, and you're like,
these people have no clue what's going on.
The moral compass of a young person
is primarily mostly developed
by the time they're nine years old.
So as I think about these things
with regard to Jehoshaphat this morning
in 2 Kings chapter 11, and I begin to read the account
and to understand the circumstances in which she's living
and what she's faced with.
Listen, this morning, we might find ourselves
in a position where we say, I didn't sign up for this.
I didn't see this coming.
I don't have time for this.
Well, listen, there was a day that Ahaziah died.
And on that day, Athaliah decided she was gonna kill
all of the grandchildren so that she could have power
so that she could be in that place of leadership.
And on that same day, Jehoshaphat took initiative.
So often, we can make excuses on why we don't have time now
and why we can't this and so on and so forth.
But man, just take initiative.
Why?
Because if you wanna have influence,
if you wanna have influence, you gotta take initiative.
If you wanna have influence, you have to be intentional.
I understand that influence is both active and passive.
But I want you to understand this morning
that influence is more active than it is passive.
You're influencing people all the time.
Somebody's watching you.
All the time, somebody's watching you.
You may not know it.
You may not know who they are.
You may not know every time they're watching you,
but people are watching you,
and especially your kids are watching you.
Your kids are watching you.
I was driving through the neighborhood over here
a number of years ago, and I've seen more signs like this
over the years.
It was the first time I ever saw this particular sign,
Mrs. Sparks, it was in the neighborhood where you live there.
And I was driving through that neighborhood,
and they had this sign up, and it said,
drive like your kids live here.
That was a pretty good sign.
Why?
Because sometimes you see people going through
a neighborhood, and they're just racing down the road,
and especially in that particular neighborhood,
if you know where Mrs. Sparks lives,
where Dean lives over there, there's an opportunity
to be able to cut through that neighborhood
to get from Germantown over to 50 or to 29,
and so you can kind of cut through that neighborhood
and quote unquote save some time
and miss about 19 red lights and so on and so forth.
And so guess what?
People will cut through there,
and so people start putting these signs up.
Drive like your kids live here.
I remember the day I saw that sign, and I said this,
and I actually preached a message on it,
like maybe a month later.
Live like your kids are watching you.
This was probably 12 years ago.
Why?
Because they are.
In fact, Solomon said, give me thine heart,
but let thine eyes observe my ways.
Now Solomon was a good example in the beginning,
not so much at the end, and that's unfortunate,
but the reality is that we desire to have influence.
And let me say this this morning,
whether you're here and you're a mom, a parent,
the reality is that every one of us have influence.
We have influence.
And so if we want to be influential,
we have to take initiative.
If we want to be influential, we have to be intentional.
And I want you to think about the life and work
of Jehoshabba.
Again, a Bible character I think that many times
is not super commonly known.
In fact, if you were having some type of a Bible quiz
and you said, tell me who Jehoshabba is,
I think many people would be like,
oh man, Jehoshabba.
And I hope after this message you'll remember Jehoshabba.
And the reality is that her life and her work
I think is inspiring.
To think about an individual, given those circumstances,
that says, you know what, I'm gonna risk it.
Because what do you think could happen to her
if Athaliah found out what she did?
Well, if Athaliah went ahead and killed
all her own grandkids, I'm sure that she wouldn't care
too much about killing Jehoshabba as well.
Is that a stretch?
I think it's pretty obvious.
And so she was willing to take that risk.
She was willing to trust the Lord
and to make a difference.
And I want to make a difference.
The Bible says in the book of Jude,
of some have compassion, making a difference.
In whose life this morning are we making a difference
in their life?
I hope in your children, but what about others?
Are we making a difference?
How can you, how can I take initiative
and make a difference in somebody's life?
How can I take and seize the opportunity,
not let the opportunity pass by,
not excuse why I can't do it this time,
but I'm gonna seize the opportunity,
I'm gonna take the initiative,
and I'm gonna make a difference,
I'm gonna have influence in somebody's life.
Well, we live intentional.
I mean, intentional living.
Why am I doing the things that I'm doing?
Why did I make that decision?
Why did I go to that place?
Why before I left?
It's too late when you get to the place that said,
oh man, I wish I would have grabbed gospel tracts.
No, that we're intentional,
that we know that we're going somewhere.
So with purpose, we say,
I'm gonna grab the gospel tracts.
By the way, Brother Mark, I got your tracts right here.
Amen, amen.
And I'm gonna grab the gospel tracts, why?
So that I can have them with me.
I'm intentional.
Does that make sense?
And that's just a simple example or illustration,
but in our lives, day by day,
that we're living and we're dealing and we're operating
with this idea of, I wanna be intentional.
And then, are we seeking to have a positive influence
in those around us?
How are we influencing people?
How are we getting down and getting,
risking, as Jehoshaphat did, to have influence?
Because I believe that Joash,
though again, if you read his whole life story,
there's some things at the end of his life
he didn't do right,
but in the early days of his life,
he was a good king.
He was doing some good things.
God was using him.
And there was continued influence through Jehoiada,
the husband of Jehoshaphat.
And so, who are we influencing?
How can we get into somebody else's life
and have that influence and make that difference?
This morning, yes, the main emphasis being Mother's Day
is to your own children.
But if your children are raised,
if you don't have children,
you still have an opportunity to influence someone.
You still have an opportunity.
And the question is,
are we looking for those opportunities?
Are we asking God, God, would you help me
to have an opportunity to make a difference
in someone's life?
Help me to make a difference.
Jehoshaphat, we see the courage of Jehoshaphat.
Of Jehoshaphat.
Oh, we need courage today to stand and do what's right.
In the face of a adverse society,
as she was in the adverse situation herself,
but we act with courage.
Oh, that God would help us to be challenged
as we consider the life of Jehoshaphat,
to be encouraged by what we read and what we see
and the difference that she made,
but to be challenged in our own lives.
I too wanna make a difference.
Let's pray, Father, we do love you
and we thank you so much for loving us.
We thank you for the privilege of being able to gather.
We thank you for the freedom.
We thank you for the word of God.
We thank you for the example of Jehoshaphat.
And Lord, I pray that today you would help each one of us
here to examine our own lives,
to not only look at the life of Jehoshaphat
and to be thankful or to be encouraged
by the actions that she took,
but God, that you would help each one of us
to take initiative, to be intentional,
and then to have that influence.
Oftentimes we'd say we want the influence,
but we understand the path that it comes through
as we examine this particular portion of scripture.
And God, I pray that you would help
each one of us this morning.
God, if there's one here that's not saved,
if they were to die today,
they're not 100% sure they'd go to heaven.
I pray that you would,
Lord, we didn't deal with the gospel
specifically this morning,
but God, we sang about the blood.
Maybe there's one that needs to come
and we could take a Bible and we could show them
how they could know for sure that heaven is their home.
I pray, God, that you'd move and work
in their hearts and lives as only you can.
Again, we thank you.
for the opportunity, I pray that you'd bless
during the time of invitation,
that every decision that's made
would bring honor and glory to thy name,
for it's in Christ's name we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
We have an opportunity at the end of our services
to have a time of invitation.